



                                THE OHIO
                               Naturalist

                              PUBLISHED BY
            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

                            EDITORIAL STAFF

            EDITOR-IN-CHIEF—JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, A. M., M. S.

                               ASSOCIATE EDITORS:
                   _Zoology_—F. L. LANDACRE, B. Sc.
                   _Botany_—F. J. TYLER, B. Sc.
                   _Geology_—J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                   _Archaeology_—W. C. MILLS, B. Sc.
                   _Ornithology_—R. F. GRIGGS.

                               ADVISORY BOARD:
                   PROFESSOR W. A. KELLERMAN, Ph. D.
                           Department of Botany.
                   PROFESSOR HERBERT OSBORN, M. Sc.
                           Department of Zoology.
                   PROFESSOR J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                           Department of Geology.

 Volume I.                      May, 1901                       Number 7


                             COLUMBUS, OHIO
                        _PRESS OF HANN & ADAIR_


[Sidenote: _THE OHIO
           NATURALIST_]

A journal devoted more especially to the natural history of Ohio. The
official organ of THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY.
Published monthly during the academic year, from November to June (8
numbers). Price 50 cents per year, payable in advance. To foreign
countries, 75 cents. Single copies 10 cents.

                                     JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, _Editor_.
                                     F. J. TYLER, _Subscriptions_.
                                     R. F. GRIGGS, _Advertising Agent_.
                 _Address_
                             THE OHIO NATURALIST, Ohio State University,
                                                         COLUMBUS, OHIO.




                                CONTENTS


 Variation in Syndesmon Thalictroides                                107
              _W. A. Kellerman_
 Description of New Species of Stratiomyidae with notes on others    112
              _J. S. Hine_
 Ohio Batrachia in the Zoological Museum of the O. S. U.             114
              _Max Morse_
 The Promethea Moth, Callosamia promethea                            116
              _Herbert Osborn_
 Meeting of the Biological Club                                      117
              _Jas. S. Hine, Sec._
 News and Notes                                                      118


 Entered at the Post Office at Columbus, Ohio, as second class matter.




                         =The Ohio Naturalist=


                              PUBLISHED BY

            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 Vol. I.                        MAY, 1901                          No. 7
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────




                 VARIATION IN SYNDESMON THALICTROIDES.

                            W. A. KELLERMAN.


This charming spring flower called in popular language Rue-Anemone,
indigenous to eastern North America, has been known from early times,
and as in many other equally unfortunate cases has had imposed upon it
by botanists a superfluity of scientific names. Linnaeus in his Species
Plantarum, 1753, listed it as Anemone thalictroides; in 1803 Michaux
called it Thalictrum anemonoides; it was rechristened as Syndesmon
thalictroides in 1832 by Hoffmansegg; finally Spach in 1839 proposed the
name Anemonella thalictroides. Botanists to-day consider our plant as
more properly placed in Hoffmansegg’s genus Syndesmon, and for it the
earliest specific name, applied by Linnaeus, is very properly retained;
hence the correct designation in botanical language is Syndesmon
thalictroides (L.) Hoffmg.

The extent of variation in this plant has been but partially noted
heretofore. The tabulation given below indicates the results of
observations made the latter part of April and the first of May this
year in regard to the number of flowers and the variation in the
involucral leaves. As to whether these are sessile as given in our
Manuals, notes have appeared on previous pages of this Journal by
Messrs. Burglehaus, Wetzstein and Schaffner, cf. pp. 72, 104 and 106.

[Illustration:

  Fig. 1. Diagrams showing arrangement of leaves and flowers.
]

The number of flowers is normally three and the involucral leaves two. A
diagram showing their arrangement is given at A, Fig. 1. The two leaves
are not always ternate; they may both be simple, diagrammatically shown
at B. A further variation, shown in Fig. 1 C presents one simple and one
compound leaf. At D greater complexity is indicated, there being in many
plants besides the central flower three instead of only two axillary
ones, and only one of the subtending leaves is compound. In the case
shown at E two of the three involucral leaves are compound. As shown in
F and G four leaves may contribute to form the involucre and each one
subtend a flower; in some cases two of the leaves are compound, in
others three or even all may be compound. Still other variations along
this line occur, but space forbids a fuller enumeration.

It should be stated that although the pedicels and leaves as shown in
the diagrams (Fig. 1) occupy but a small portion of the circle, as a
matter of fact the leaflets are spread and so disposed as to occupy the
entire area when viewed from above the plant, the leaflets being
equidistant from each other, or contiguous but not overlapping, and
therefore taking the most advantageous position so far as sunlight is
concerned.

The very striking variation in regard to presence or absence of the
petiole to the involucral leaves has been previously noted. An
inspection of a very large number of specimens collected in the vicinity
of Columbus and in Perry and Logan counties, as well as of specimens
kindly sent for the purpose by Mr. F. H. Burglehaus, Prof. A. Wetzstein,
and Supt. H. N. Mertz, shows that petiolate forms occur exclusively in
some localities (Northwestern Ohio); in other places the sessile form
only obtains (Eastern Ohio); and yet elsewhere both forms are about
equally represented (Central Ohio). We can not regard the petiolate
forms as in any real sense a variety (much less a distinct
species)—since both sessile and petiolate leaves occur in countless
cases on the same plant. But where the petiolate form occurs
prevailingly or may be exclusively, it would be advantageous to
designate the same; therefore I propose as follows:

Syndesmon thalictroides f. PETIOLATA nova forma. Involucral leaves
prevailingly or exclusively with petioles 2–10 or even 25 or more
millimeters in length; otherwise like the typical species. Toledo (F. H.
Burglehaus), St. Marys (A. Wetzstein) and West Mansfield, occasionally
at Columbus and Rendville.

Comparatively few monstrosities were observed. In one case only did
merely one leaf and two flowers occur; often but one flower develops
though two leaves occur as usual; in a few cases a single small leaf was
seen on a pedicel. A more common teratological variation was the
elongation of the axis at the usual point of insertion of the flowers
and involucral leaves, often distantly separating the leaves with their
axillary flowers; in one case the distance between the points of
insertion of the leaves was nearly two inches. The sepals are
occasionally excessively numerous.

A characteristic very prominent is the similarity of the several stems
that come from the same root. If one presents the typical form of
flowers and leaves almost without exception, the second (and third when
present) do the same; if one varies in any respect rarely does the
remainder fail to follow suit. This can be seen in the tabulation where
two or more stems are indicated—both or all are given (except in Nos.
29, 30 and 49) as observed, in the successive serial numbers. Another
instance of the persistency of an idiosyncracy, as we may call it, was
observed in some Syndesmons taken from the woods by a gardener at
Springfield, Ohio, over forty years ago. The flowers were bountifully
double, and the plants have each year since faithfully presented the
same striking peculiarity.

The tabulation that follows is based on specimens from Toledo (Lucas
Co.), Nos. 1–30; from St. Marys (Auglaize Co.), Nos. 31–48; from
Steubenville (Jefferson Co.), Nos. 49–65; from West Mansfield (Logan
Co.), Nos. 66–76; from Rendville (Perry Co.), Nos. 77–88; and from
Columbus, Nos. 89–100. The number of stems to each plant is given in the
second column; then follow in order the number of flowers to each stem,
the number of simple leaves with length of their petioles in
_millimeters_, the number of compound leaves with length (also in
_millimeters_) of their petioles and finally of their petiolules.


                              TABULATION.

 No.   1 Stems 2 Fls.  4 Simp. 1 Pet.   8 Comp. 2 Pet.   14 Petl.   3–8
                         lvs.             lvs.
  „    2   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      4   „     2–3
  „    3   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      4   „     2–3
  „    4   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    10   „   2  „      9   „     3–7
  „    5   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      3   „     0–2
  „    6   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      6   „     3–6
  „    7   „   1   „   3   „   1  „    13   „   1  „     15   „     6–6
  „    8   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    12   „   2  „     12   „     3–7
  „    9   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     3   „   2  „      3   „     2–3
  „   10   „   3   „   4   „   1  „    11   „   2  „     12   „     2–4
  „   11   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    6–7   „     2–4
  „   12   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   13   „   2   „   4   „   3  „     6   „   0  „          „
  „   14   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     6   „   0  „          „
  „   15   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     9   „   2  „      9   „     2–5
  „   16   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     8   „   2  „      7   „     2–4
  „   17   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „      3   „     1–2
  „   18   „   2   „   5   „   1  „     6   „   3  „      8   „     2–5
  „   19   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     3   „   0  „          „
  „   20   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      7   „     2–4
  „   21   „   1   „   4   „   2  „   4–5   „   1  „      5   „     2–3
  „   22   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      9   „     3–7
  „   23   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      6   „     2–3
  „   24   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      3   „     0–2
  „   25   „   1   „   1   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      5   „     2–3
  „   26   „   1   „   4   „   1  „     5   „   2  „      7   „     2–4
  „   27   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    12   „   2  „     16   „     3–8
  „   28   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      7   „     2–3
  „   29   „   7   „   4   „   1  „     8   „   2  „     10   „     3–6
  „   30   „   7   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      8   „     3–6
  „   31   „   2   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    3–4   „     1–2
  „   32   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   33   „   1   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      3   „     ½–2
  „   34   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    4–5   „     1–2
  „   35   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      5   „     1–2
  „   36   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     3   „   1  „      4   „     ½–2
  „   37   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      4   „     1–2
  „   38   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      4   „     1–2
  „   39   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      6   „     2–3
  „   40   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   41   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     3   „   1  „      3   „       1
  „   42   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     2   „   1  „      2   „    1–1½
  „   43   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      5   „     1–2
  „   44   „   3   „   3   „   2  „     5   „   0  „          „
  „   45   „   3   „   3   „   2  „     6   „   0  „          „
  „   46   „   3   „   3   „   2  „     3   „   0  „          „
  „   47   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      4   „       0
  „   48   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     1   „   0  „          „
  „   49   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „   12–15
  „   50   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „   22–28
  „   51   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „    6–10
  „   52   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     3–6
  „   53   „   5   „   5   „   2  „     1   „   2  „      0   „    1–1½
  „   54   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „       1
  „   55   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     6–6
  „   56   „   6   „   4   „   1  „    15   „   2  „      0   „   15–25
  „   57   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      0   „    6–26
  „   58   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      0   „   20–25
  „   59   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „     3–6
  „   60   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „   15–20
  „   61   „   3   „   4   „   2  „     0   „   2  „      0   „     3–6
  „   62   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     4–8
  „   63   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „   15–23
  „   64   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „      0   „    5–18
  „   65   „   3   „   5   „   1  „     0   „   3  „      0   „    2–10
  „   66   „   2   „   2   „   1  „     2   „   1  „     2½   „    1½–2
  „   67   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     2   „   0  „          „
  „   68   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    1½   „   2  „      2   „     2–3
  „   69   „   2   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    3–5   „     1–3
  „   70   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „   1½–2   „       2
  „   71   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „    3–4   „       2
  „   72   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      2   „     1–2
  „   73   „   2   „   3   „   0  „     2   „   2  „    4–5   „     2–3
  „   74   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      2   „     1–2
  „   75   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      4   „     2–3
  „   76   „   1   „   1   „   2  „     1   „   0  „          „
  „   77   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „    5–12
  „   78   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    0–2   „     3–7
  „   79   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–4
  „   80   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    1–3   „     2–5
  „   81   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    5–6   „     5–9
  „   82   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      1   „       2
  „   83   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    0–6   „     2–8
  „   84   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   85   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „   15–18
  „   86   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     2–5
  „   87   „   2   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    0–7   „     0–6
  „   88   „   2   „   5   „   0  „         „   4  „      0   „     2–4
  „   89   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     4   „   2  „      0   „     4–6
  „   90   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     5   „   2  „      0   „     5–8
  „   91   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „     3–5
  „   92   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      0   „     5–8
  „   93   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „   0–10   „    8–28
  „   94   „   1   „   5   „   1  „    22   „   3  „   0–25   „    4–23
  „   95   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „   0–15   „    9–33
  „   96   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    0–8   „    6–25
  „   97   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    6–7   „     2–4
  „   98   „   1   „   1   „   2  „     4   „   0  „          „
  „   99   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     4   „   2  „      5   „     2–3
  „  100   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     3   „   1  „      4   „     1–2

[Illustration:

  OHIO NATURALIST. _Plate 9._

  KELLERMAN ON SYNDESMON.
]

From the above tabulation it may be seen that of the plants selected at
random for examination 51 per cent. of the stems have three flowers and
49 per cent. have four or more; 10 per cent. have simple involucral
leaves only, 44 per cent. have both simple and compound, and 46 per
cent. have only compound involucrate leaves. Of the total number, 88 per
cent. have one or all of the involucrate leaves petiolate, and 12 per
cent. have only sessile ones. Observations of others on this interesting
little plant are solicited—especially should the Ohio botanists,
amateurs and pupils furnish such notes for publication in the OHIO
NATURALIST.

  EXPLANATION OF PLATE 9.—Syndesmon thalictroides; the leaves, etc.,
  were used as negatives and the photographs were reduced by the
  engraver to less than one-half the natural size. Figs. 1, 2 and 3 show
  leaves from the same plant; figs. 4, 5 and 6 are from one and the same
  plant; figs. 7, 8, 9 and 10 are parts of the same plant; figs. 11, 12
  and 13, also 14, 15 and 16 are each of one plant respectively; figs.
  17 to 23 inclusive illustrate leaf variation, specimens taken from
  different plants, except figs. 22 and 23 which are from one and the
  same plant.




   DESCRIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF STRATIOMYIDAE WITH NOTES ON OTHERS.

                             JAS. S. HINE.


In a collection of several species of Stratiomyidae from Ohio, and a
number of western species, I find something which may be of interest to
students of the family.

Specimens of _Allognosta fuscitarsis_, Say, show some degree of
variation in the extent of the pale color on the disc of the abdomen.
Some of the females have the abdomen nearly or wholly black. Specimens
of _A. obscuriventris_, Loew, have the body entirely black; the legs are
darker and the form is considerably smaller than _fuscitarsis_. Both
species are common at Columbus during May.


                  PTECTICUS (SARGUS) TRIVITTATUS, Say.

A species of _Ptecticus_ taken abundantly at Cincinnati by Chas. Dury
agrees so well with Say’s _Sargus trivittatus_ that I cannot convince
myself that it is anything else. Specimens when first taken agree more
closely with Say’s description than the same specimens do after they
have been in the cabinet awhile and have become dry. The green color
that Say mentions is present in some while others are yellowish or
brownish. The broad, dusky band that Say described as appearing on the
basal part of each abdominal segment beyond the second is conspicuous,
being of greatest extent on the fifth and sixth.


                        EUPARYPHUS MAJOR n. sp.

Female, length 9mm. Head yellow; vertex, a wide stripe from vertex to
mouth, widened at antennae and spreading out on the cheeks in the region
of the mouth, antennae and occiput, black; eyes hairy. Thorax shining;
apical two-thirds of scutellum including the spines, an irregular spot
each side between the scutellum and base of the wing, four longitudinal
lines abbreviated behind, a triangular spot before the base of the wing,
and two spots beneath it, bright yellow. There is also a minute yellow
spot on each side of the thorax posterior to the lower corner of the
eye, the yellow markings on the disc of the thorax extend for one-fifth
of their length behind the transverse suture, while those on the sides
extend from the humerus to the transverse suture. The femora except at
base and apex are black, and the last three tarsal joints are brown,
remaining parts of the legs are yellow; wings hyaline, veins dull
yellow, halteres bright yellow. Abdomen black; a spot under the
scutellum, a spot each side on the lateral part of the second segment,
an elongate oblique band nearly meeting its fellow of the opposite side
of each of the third and fourth segments, and apex, yellow. On the
venter the hind margins of the third and fourth segments are yellow for
their entire width, nearly the whole of the middle part of the second
segment and a narrow band on the posterior margin of the first segment
are also yellow. The lateral margins of the segments of the abdomen are
black between the yellow markings, and there is no connection between
the yellow markings on the abdomen.

A female specimen taken by E. J. Oslar at Boulder, Colorado, August 19,
1899.

In many respects this species agrees with Osten Sacken’s
_decem-maculatus_, but it cannot be that species as the markings are
very different. Aside from the hairy eyes it appears to belong to
_Euparyphus_. The third joint of the antennae is composed of six rings
with the last ring the longest. The fifth posterior cell meets the
discal and its general form agrees very closely with _bellus_ and
_tetraspilus_.


                       AKRONIA n. gen. (Fig. 1.)

[Illustration:

  Fig. 1.
]

Head conically produced. Front in the female noticeably wider than the
eye, in the male about half as wide as in the female. Antennae
three-jointed, first and second joints about equal in length, third much
longer than the other two together and composed of six rings. Posterior
orbits wide in both sexes, but widest in the female, scutellum without
spines, four posterior veins arising from the discal cell, abdomen short
and broad, nearly circular in outline.

Named for Akron, Ohio, in which vicinity I have procured many rare
species.


                        AKRONIA FRONTOSA n. sp.

Length 4–4½ mm. Dull black, sparsely clothed with very short,
light-colored hair; eyes widely separated in both sexes, naked; antennae
entirely in front of the eyes; front produced more in the female than in
the male, posterior orbits present in both sexes, widest in the female;
thorax nearly equally four-sided, scutellum without spines, wings
hyaline, veins bounding costal, basal, marginal, and first and second
sub-marginal cells heavy and dark colored; discal cell rather small
emitting four posterior veins; legs black, knees and tarsi lighter
colored than the other parts; abdomen short and wide. Five males and
four females taken at Hawkins, near Akron, Ohio, May 21, 1899.

This is so distinct from species of _Nemotelus_ in general appearance,
and structure of the head, especially in the male, that it seems best to
make it the type of a new genus.


                     CHRYSOCHROMA NIGRICORNIS Loew.

This is a common species in southern Ohio. Specimens may be found
resting on the upper side of leaves and are easily approached. In the
female the white fronted line which Loew mentions is very conspicuous
and extends from one eye to the other above the antennae. In some
specimens the white lateral, thoracic lines are very easily seen, but in
others these lines are brownish. The male has much the appearance of the
female, the eyes are broadly contiguous, leaving a small vertical
triangle which is largely occupied by the ocelli; the lateral thoracic
lines in this sex are dark brown and therefore are not such a contrast
to the bright green thorax as in the female.

I had some trouble in locating the genus of this species by Dr.
Williston’s key. The species is not elongate, but of much the same form
as _Microcrysa polita_. A comparison was made with the type.




        OHIO BATRACHIA IN THE ZOOLOGICAL MUSEUM OF THE O. S. U.

                               MAX MORSE.


                             Fam. PROTEIDÆ.

_Necturus maculatus_ Rafin. University Lake, Olentangy River, and Lake
Erie. Near Sandusky, on both the Lake and Bay shore, decaying specimens
of the mud-puppy, mostly young, were found in numbers in 1900. Almost
all were covered with a fungus—probably _Saprolegnia_.


                         Fam. CRYPTOBRANCHIDÆ.

_Cryptobranchus alleganiensis_ (Daudin.) Columbus.


                          Fam. AMBLYSTOMATIDÆ.

_Amblystoma opacum_ (Gravenh). Portsmouth and Sugar Grove.

_Amblystoma tigrinum_ (Green). Columbus. This salamander appears early
in the Spring and is often found in small pools. Individuals are taken
nearly every Autumn in the basement of the Biological Hall while they
are seeking shelter. A specimen taken thus had many characteristics in
common with _xiphias_ Cope and it is doubtful how valid _xiphias_ is, as
a species.

_Amblystoma microstomum_ (Cope). Columbus and New London.


                          Fam. PLETHODONTIDÆ.

_Plethodon cinereus cinereus_ (Green). Sugar Grove.

_Plethodon cinereus erythronotus_ (Green). Sugar Grove, Columbus, and
Worthington. In the early part of the year this is the commonest
salamander in the ravines in Franklin County. It is found generally away
from water, under loose debris two or more rods from the stream.

_Plethodon glutinosus_ (Green). Sugar Grove. This salamander is found in
such localities as were mentioned for _P. c. erythronotus_.

_Gyrinophilus porphyriticus_ (Green). Sugar Grove.

_Spelerpes bilineatus_ (Green). Sugar Grove. Habits apparently aquatic.

_Spelerpes longicauda_ (Green). Sugar Grove. This salamander is abundant
in this region where it may be found in May under stones at the edge of
the water together with its eggs; the eggs are attached to the under
side of a hollow stone. Some individuals were found in May, 1900, away
from water.

_Spelerpes ruber_ (Daudin). Fairfield County.

_Desmognathus fusca_ (Rafin). Sugar Grove and Perry Co. Aquatic in
habits.


                           Fam. PLEURODELIDÆ.

_Diemictylus viridescens miniatus_ (Rafin). Sugar Grove.


                             Fam. BUFONIDÆ.

_Bufo lentiginosus_ (Shaw). Columbus and Knox County. This is the common
toad of Central Ohio.

_Bufo lentiginosus americanus_ LeConte. A specimen from the sand dunes
of Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio.


                              Fam. HYLIDÆ.

_Acris gryllus crepitans_ Baird. Knox County, Central College and
Columbus. The common cricket-frog of Central Ohio is this subspecies.
The young resemble the species _gryllus_ LeConte in having the under
surface of the thigh reticulated and blotched.

_Chorophilus triseriatus_ (Wied.). Sugar Grove.

_Hyla versicolor_ LeConte. Knox County and Columbus.

_Hyla pickeringii_ Storer. Sugar Grove.


                              Fam. RANIDÆ.

_Rana virescens_ Kalm. Sugar Grove and Columbus.

_Rana palustris_ LeConte. Sugar Grove.

_Rana sylvatica_ LeConte. Knox County and Sugar Grove.

_Rana clamata_ Daudin. Columbus.

_Rana catesbiana_ Shaw. Columbus.

SUMMARY FOR BATRACHIA.—Families 8, Genera 12, Species 25.




               THE PROMETHEA MOTH, CALLOSAMIA PROMETHEA.

                            HERBERT OSBORN.


This beautiful moth is one of the rather common species belonging to the
group of silkmaking Lepidoptera. The moths appear in May or June. The
female is light rusty brown and drab with a darker area across the
middle of the wings, while the males are much darker, nearly black, and
differ further from the females in the shape of the wings and markings
as shown in the figures.

[Illustration:

  FIG. 1. _Callosamia promethea_, female. (H. O. ad. nat. 1880.)
]

The eggs are laid in early summer almost immediately after pairing, and
hatch in course of a few days, the larvae growing through the summer.
The cocoons are hung to twigs of trees by a silken cord, and quite often
a leaf is utilized as the outer covering within which the elongate oval
cocoon is built. In any case the cocoon bears resemblance to a withered
curled leaf hanging by its petiole. In this manner cocoons hang upon the
trees through the winter.

They are found most commonly on wild cherry, this being apparently the
favorite food plant of the larva. They feed however on a large number of
common trees and shrubs.

[Illustration:

  FIG. 2. _Callosamia promethea_, male. (H. O. ad. nat. 1880.)
]

The figures of the moth, male and female, were drawn twenty one years
ago, and having now come of age they may perhaps be trusted to make
their first public appearance.




                    MEETING OF THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB.


The Biological Club met in Zoological lecture room on the evening of
April 1, 1901. Professor Osborn presided.

Professor Schaffner reviewed a paper entitled _Zur Kenntniss der
Zelltheilung bei Myriopoden_, published in _Archiv fur Mikroskopische
Anatomie_.

Dr. Morrey spoke on the subject, “Two years in Europe as a Student.”
Most of the time was spent at the University of Vienna, although the
University at Zurich and the Pasteur Institute at Paris were each
attended for a short term.

The University of Vienna ranks among the first in the advantages offered
to medical students. The hospitals of the city are noteworthy on account
of the large number of cases and the great variety of diseases treated.
The numerous holidays observed in Vienna seriously interrupt college
work. Hardly a week passes in which there is not one or more holidays on
which work is wholly suspended.

The speaker placed on the exhibition table a fine series of photographs
procured during his stay abroad. These furnished a treat for those
present after the regular program was completed.

                                                JAS. S. HINE, Secretary.




                            NEWS AND NOTES.


The Summer Field Meeting of the Ohio State Academy of Science will be
held at Wooster, Ohio, on Friday and Saturday, May 31 and June 1, 1901,
under the auspices of the University of Wooster, the Ohio Experiment
Station and the Wooster Field Naturalist’s Club. The plan includes
Friday about the small lakes southwest of Wooster, and an evening
meeting in Wooster; Saturday morning at the Experiment Station, to be
followed by an excursion to North Lawrence with its mines and Fox Lake
with its tamarack bog.

Prof. Charles S. Prosser in an article in the Am. Jour. of Sci.
11:191–199, 1901, discusses the names applied to the formations of the
Ohio Coal measures. The following names are proposed.

                  Present Names.            Proposed Names.
          Upper Barren Coal Measures         Dunkard formation
          Upper Productive Coal Measures Monongahela formation
          Lower Barren Coal Measures       Conemaugh formation
          Lower Productive Coal Measures   Allegheny formation

The Philadelphia Fleabane (Erigeron philadelphicus L.) is one of our
interesting spring plants and will repay careful study. The leaves of
the stem in most individuals have a decided polarity and for the most
part are twisted so as to stand in a single plane. In this respect the
plant is as striking as any of the so-called compass plants, although
the plane in which the leaves lie may be in any direction. Another
interesting adaptation is the drooping of the top of the young plant.
The entire inflorescence nods at first and finally the individual heads,
but one by one these assume the upright position as the flowers begin to
open.

                                                                J. H. S.

WINTER ADAPTATION OF OPUNTIA.—The Ohio species of cactus, Opuntia
humifusa Raf., has an interesting habit which seems to be a protective
measure against cold. At the approach of Winter the flattened stems lose
their upright position and press themselves closely to the surface of
the ground.

The stems lose considerable of their moisture at the same time, becoming
wrinkled but not at all flaccid. By the end of April they are again
upright and distended.

                                                                F. J. T.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                         Ohio State University

 Six distinct and independent Colleges, each with a Dean and Faculty of
    its own.

     THIRTY SEVEN DEPARTMENTS. THIRTY DISTINCT COURSES.

         AGRICULTURE, ARTS, LAW, ENGINEERING, PHARMACY, VETERINARY
            MEDICINE.

Superior facilities for education in Applied Science. Short or special
courses for mature students not candidates for degrees.

 One hundred and twenty one instructors. Over thirteen hundred students.
                      FINEST GYMNASIUM IN THE WEST.

 _For further information address the President_,

                         DR. W. O. THOMPSON, STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS.


           Ohio Forest Trees Identified by Leaves and Fruit.

           By W. A. KELLERMAN, PH. D., Ohio State University.

A neat pamphlet for every one who wishes to learn our native forest
trees. Keys simple. Description plain. Can learn the names of the trees
easily.

 Price reduced from 25 cents to                              =10 cents=.

Also, =The Fourth State Catalogue of Ohio Plants=.

 Bound copies at cost of binding, namely                     =20 cents=.

Gives list of scientific and common names; distribution by counties.

Teachers and others will also be interested in Prof. Kellerman’s
Phyto-theca or Herbarium Portfolio, _Practical Studies_ in Elementary
Botany, _Elementary Botany_ with Spring Flora, all published by Eldredge
& Bro., Philadelphia, to whom apply.

For information or copies of _Forest Trees_ and _Catalogue_ or names of
plant specimens of your region _address_

                                         W. A. KELLERMAN, COLUMBUS, OHIO


                       American Entomological Co.

                  1040 DE KALB AVENUE, BROOKLYN, N. Y.

 Lepidoptera Price List No. 2.—_Price 5 cents_      Refunded to Buyers
                       ISSUED NOVEMBER 15th 1900.

       Dealers of all kinds of ...      _ENTOMOLOGICAL SUPPLIES_

 Manufacturers of the Original and Celebrated ... SCHMITT INSECT BOXES

                  _Builders of INSECT CABINETS, ETC._

The Twentieth Century Text Books of Biology.

 PLANT RELATIONS, 12mo, cloth                                      $1.10
 PLANT STRUCTURES, 12mo, cloth                                      1.20
 PLANT STUDIES, 12mo, cloth                                         1.20
 PLANTS, 12mo, cloth                                                1.80
 ANALYTICAL KEY TO PLANTS, 12mo, flexible cloth                      .75

   All by JOHN MERLE COULTER, A. M., Ph. D., Head of Dept. of Botany,
                         University of Chicago.

            _They are already the preferred texts, and the
            reasons will be apparent on examination._


                 ANIMAL LIFE: A First Book of Zoology.

  By DAVID S. JORDAN, M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., President of the
    Leland Stanford Junior University, and VERNON L. KELLOGG, M. S.,
    Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. 12mo. Cloth, $1.20.
    _Now ready._

_Not a book for learning the classification, anatomy, and nomenclature
of animals, but to show how animals reached their present development,
the effects of environment, their place in Nature, their relations to
one another and to the human race. Designed for one-half year’s work in
high schools. Send for sample pages._


                ANIMAL FORMS: A Second Book of Zoology.

  By DAVID S. JORDAN. M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., and HAROLD HEATH,
    Ph. D., Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. _Ready in
    February, 1901._

 =D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers=, _New York_, _Chicago_, _London_.


                        RECENT SCIENTIFIC WORKS

    In =Astronomy=, Dr. Simon Newcomb’s new book, published October,
    1900; in =Physics=, the Johns Hopkins text of Professors Rowland
    and Ames; also in Physics for second and third year high school
    work, the text of Dr. Hoadley, of Swarthmore; in =Physiology=,
    the text by Drs. Macy and Norris, based on the Nervous System;
    also the =High School Physiology= indorsed by the W. C. T. U.,
    written by Drs. Hewes, of Harvard University; in =Geology=, the
    =Revised= “=Compend=” of Dr. Le Conte, and the two standard
    works of Dana,—The =Manual for University Work=, and the =New
    Text Book=, revision and rewriting of Dr. Rice, for fourth year
    high school work; in =Chemistry=, the approved =Storer and
    Lindsay=, recommended for secondary schools by the leading
    colleges; in =Zoology=, the =Laboratory Manual= of Dr. Needham,
    of Cornell; and the series “=Scientific Memoirs=” edited by Dr.
    Ames, of Johns Hopkins. Nine volumes ready.

            The publishers cordially invite correspondence.


                   AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY, CINCINNATI

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.
